## Overview
This project is part of Data Engineer nanodegree. The main objective is to build an ETL pipeline that extracts the data from AWS S3, proces using Spark(python libraries). This project executed on AWS EMR Spark Cluster and also used JupyterLab to develop and test code.

## Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.


## Project Datasets
Here are the S3 links for each:

    Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

    Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

## Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

    song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
    song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

## Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

### Project Structure
etl.py - ETL script to read data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3

dl.cfg - Before running the project add your AWS credentials.

spark-data-lake-etl.ipynb - Is Jupyter notebook used and tested on AWS JupyterLab to evaluate and write code logic.

data - sample local json data for testing.
